Analyzing Return Rates

Calculated Field:

Create a calculated field named "Return Rate" in the Returns table using a formula like:
SQL
IF [Returned] = "Yes" THEN 1
ELSE 0
END
Use code with caution.

This assigns a "1" to returned orders and "0" to non-returned orders.

Return Rate Analysis Worksheets:

Here's a breakdown of the worksheets you need to create:

Total Sales vs. Total Returns:
Visualization: Scatterplot
X-axis: Total Sales (by product subcategory)
Y-axis: Total Returns (count or sum, by product subcategory)
Analysis: This helps identify if high sales volume correlates with high return rates. It might suggest issues like product quality or unclear descriptions for popular products with high returns.
Return Rate by Product Category:
Visualization: Bar chart
X-axis: Product Category
Y-axis: Average Return Rate (calculated field)
Analysis: This reveals which product categories have the highest return rates, indicating underlying issues specific to certain product types.
Return Rate by Customer (excluding single-order customers):
Visualization: Bar chart
X-axis: Customer ID
Y-axis: Average Return Rate (calculated field)
Filter: Exclude customers with only 1 order
Analysis: This identifies customers with a history of high return rates, suggesting problems with customer satisfaction or product misuse.
Return Rate by Geographic Location:
Visualization: Map
Color-coding: States/Cities (geographic measure) colored by average return rate
Analysis: This helps identify geographic regions with higher return rates, suggesting logistical issues or regional variations in customer behavior.
Return Rate by Time:
Visualization: Line chart or bar chart
X-axis: Month/Week (time measure)
Y-axis: Average Return Rate (calculated field)
Analysis: This reveals seasonal trends in return rates, which might peak during holidays or specific times of the year.
Composite Charts (choose two):
Option 1: Scatterplot with average return rate on Y-axis and colored by product category on X-axis, with additional lines showing average return rate by month/week overlaid.
Option 2: Bar chart showing return rate by customer segment (e.g., high-spending vs. low-spending) with bars further broken down by product category.
Analysis: These composite charts provide a more comprehensive view of return rates across multiple factors.
Building a Dashboard for Monitoring Returns

Mock-up Variations:

Here are three variations for your dashboard mock-up:

Single Page: This layout includes sections for key return rate metrics, a map, and a line chart for trends.

Two Pages:  The first page focuses on high-level metrics and geographic trends, while the second page offers deeper dives by product category, customer segment, and time period.

Interactive Dashboard: This allows users to explore return rates using filters for product category, customer segment, and time period.

Template and Finalized Dashboard:

Create a template in Tableau with empty containers matching your chosen mock-up.
Add your relevant worksheets to the containers.
Include titles, markers, and images (if applicable) to enhance clarity.
Presenting Your Analysis and Dashboard

Story Arc (Captions Only):

Summary: Briefly describe your findings on return rates and root causes.
Measuring Returns: Discuss the pros and cons of return rate, total return cost, and total return count. Explain when each is most useful.
Key Root Causes: Highlight the major factors identified as contributing to high return rates.
Dashboard Components: Briefly explain each chart's purpose and interpretation.
Dashboard Demonstration: Showcase how to use the dashboard filters to explore return rates.
Identifying Root Causes with Dashboard: Demonstrate how to use the dashboard to pinpoint potential causes of high return rates.
Actions Based on Findings: Propose actions Superstore can take to address the identified root causes (e.g., improve product quality, adjust marketing strategies).
Conclusion & Next Steps: Summarize your findings and recommend implementing the dashboard for ongoing return rate monitoring.
Presentation (3-5 minutes):

Use screen recording software or create a PDF presentation to deliver your findings.
By following these steps and incorporating the analysis worksheets into your dashboard
